Uh, you're up early today.
Dad?
Yeah.
I want to get baptized.
Okay, let's talk about it.
I was thinking, you know, mom was baptized and she was 12 and, you know, I'm...
Now you're 12, is that it?
I know what you're thinking, Dad, but I'm ready. I know I am.
I'll tell you what. Let's do a special family study series first, okay?
On what?
Well, we'll start with faith.
Being dedicated to Jehovah and staying dedicated to Him, it requires that we have strong faith.
By faith, Noah, after receiving divine warnings of things not yet seen, showed godly fear and constructed in art.
Abraham just as good as offered up Isaac, so how did that take a lot of faith?
So the Bible says that Abel was faithful his whole life, but he was also faithful until Dad.
So what do you think that means?
Rachel, keep your faith strong and you will never fail.
Love, Dad.
How do you like the pictures?
Do you like this one or less?
Oh, your mom would have really liked this one.
I used to wish she could have been there today.
I know. Me too.
Which is why I've been thinking if she were here, I think she would have wanted you to have this.
Mom's memory book.
I thought you could pick up where she left off.
And fill it with your fee-cratic memories.
And then one day soon we can share those memories with her in the new world.
What do you say?
Yeah, I would love that.
Yeah, good.
Thanks, Dad.
You're welcome.
Hey, Rachel.
I was just looking at some old pictures of you.
Long time ago.
Yeah, it was.
Is there any mail for me?
Yeah, it's right here on the counter.
Oh, an invitation.
How was your day?
How was the museum?
I was okay.
Something bothering you.
But like all my friends are getting married.
People at work wonder why I'm not dating.
And they even tried to set me up.
I mean, come on.
Aren't you interested in, you know, being with a girl?
I met someone at the museum today.
He was really nice.
I'm finally getting the attention I want.
But it's not from a witness.
Just call me, okay?
He'll be fine.
So what are you going to do about it?
Rachel, always remember.
Virtue is a beautiful quality.
It's not just passive avoidance, but has real power.
Power to do good.
Treasure virtue and Jehovah will treasure you.
Love, dad.
Virtue is based on our love for Jehovah.
As it says in the book of Psalms,
O lovers of Jehovah, hate what is bad.
Just call me, okay?
It'll be fun.
Do I love Jehovah enough to hate what is bad?
Give me a mail for me today?
No, not today.
The printing company called, though, I picked up this package for you.
The invitations arrived.
Eventually, I ended up getting engaged to a wonderful brother.
But even so, I realized that marriage wasn't the solution to my problem.
Remaining faithful to Jehovah is what really made me happy.
Mom, do we have anything to eat?
I can't believe you're so hungry.
He is a growing boy.
What are you going to do with all that energy, son?
I'm trying to study.
For school?
No, it's for the meeting tomorrow.
I want to be able to give a comment.
That's good.
I'm sensing there's a problem, though.
Yeah, a big one.
I don't like to study.
It's so boring.
You know, I used to find it hard to study, too.
And then I realized study can be like exercise.
It may not seem enjoyable at first.
But once you make the effort and then establish a regular routine,
it becomes enjoyable, even fun.
And soon, it won't feel like work anymore.
I agree.
I tell you what, we can go up to your room and I'll show you how to get the most out of your study.
Okay, sounds good.
Dad reminded me to pray to Jehovah first,
asking for help to understand what I'm studying.
He said it's important to look up the scriptures
and make sure I review the main points, then think about how the material applies to me.
I learned that study isn't just preparing for meetings.
It's learning about Jehovah and how to live a good life.
And it doesn't always mean reading.
Sometimes, I can even look at creation
or draw pictures about something I learned.
After a few weeks, I really started to enjoy it
and my study time flew by.
There's no one.
He's having his room studying.
Studying?
Oh man, Grandpa and Dad are right.
About what?
Well, is it the studying one feel like work anymore?
I remember when Grandpa said the same thing to me.
I breathed this for you.
He gave this to me when I was about your age.
Rachel, apply yourself to study
and soon it won't feel like work.
Love, Dad.
Hey, Ma.
Morning, Noah.
You going on a service?
No, I actually have some things I need to get done
and then I was hoping to do some painting or sketching later.
No, please.
You must be ahead on your schedule.
You ready, son?
Ready.
Thanks for lunch.
Have a good day.
Bye, Mom.
Love you.
I've been planning this day off for months now.
I really want a chance to relax and paint.
I hardly ever get to take some time off.
Nothing's going to get in the way.
Hey, Rach.
How are you?
Good, how are you?
Good.
Well, I'm on the way to the Hall for Service
and I was wondering if later today, maybe if you had some time,
I started a new study with this young girl.
Nice.
Actually, you know, I already have plans for the day.
What about Sarah?
I check.
She has plans.
Daisy?
No.
Simone.
That's okay.
I'll find somebody.
Thanks so much for understanding Anne.
I felt bad, but she didn't seem to mind.
Like she said, I'm sure she'll find someone.
Memory book.
I haven't seen this in a while.
Dad's cards always gave me such good advice.
Rachel, self-control is more than just refraining from doing bad.
It compels us to do good, like kingdom preaching.
Don't let the unwilling flesh extinguish the fire of a willing spirit.
Love, dad.
Self-control.
I never thought of it that way before.
There's nothing wrong with taking a day off.
But Anne does need help.
And I'll still have time to paint when I get back.
Change of plans, Rachel.
Anne, this is Rachel.
Did you find anybody to go on the Bible study with you?
Could I go with you?
Perfect. Where can I meet you?
See you soon.
I'm glad I decided to help Anne.
That was such a good Bible study.
And I still have time to paint.
This turned out to be a great day.
So how was Pioneer School?
It was great.
We had Brother Daniels as our primary instructor.
He's incredible.
He's a good teacher.
And Noah, what was it like to be in Pioneer School with your grandpa?
It was great. It really was.
Hard to believe, though.
I never thought this system would last so long.
And I certainly never thought I'd be a grandfather.
So grandpa, what was it like when you were my age?
Well, when I was about your age,
I had just become a new father.
I could tell even then your mother was going to be an artist.
Those were good times for us.
A few years later, though,
your grandmother became seriously ill.
We didn't know it at the time,
but she wasn't going to get better.
Watching your best friend die a little each day.
It just tears you up inside.
With Jehovah's help,
and with the support of the brothers and sisters,
we got through it.
We learned to rely on Jehovah in ways we never had before.
And that helped when years later,
another test came our way.
You see, back then,
some were looking to a certain date
as signifying the end of this old system of things.
A few even went so far as selling their homes,
including their jobs.
I admit I was ready to see this old system go away too,
but something just didn't seem right.
Both at meetings,
and in my personal study,
I was reminded of what Jesus said.
Nobody knows the day or hour.
I was dedicated to Jehovah, not a date.
After that year came and went,
most of those who had wrong expectations
made the needed adjustments,
and they stayed.
We didn't run away,
and we didn't give up.
We trusted in Jehovah.
When I see older ones now,
I don't just see gray hair.
I see living, breathing examples of endurance.
Wow, Grandpa.
I didn't know you had to endure through all that.
We got through it with Jehovah's help.
But Scott, you were in Pioneer School recently, right?
Yeah, just a year ago.
I didn't know that evening
would be one of our last together.
If I had known,
I would have thanked that
for all that he did,
teaching me how to study,
meditate,
and put into practice beautiful qualities.
A gift he shared,
not just with me,
a gift in Scripture or reminders
that somehow seemed to keep giving,
no matter how hard it got.
The Bible training he gave me
never steered me wrong.
No idea the impact it would have on me.
But he did,
I think, Jehovah,
that he raised me in the truth
the way he did.
Rachel,
as a parent,
you pray
that your child always stays
close to Jehovah.
So I made it my goal
to instill the qualities
at 2 Peter, chapter 1,
verses 5 through 10,
into your heart as best I could.
Put forth all earnest effort
to supply to your faith
virtue,
to your virtue,
knowledge,
to your knowledge,
self-control.
To your self-control,
endurance,
to your endurance,
godly devotion,
to your godly devotion,
brotherly affection,
to your brotherly affection,
love.
For if you keep on doing these things,
you will by no means
ever fail.
Love, dead.